---
title: Blame It On The Lift
date: 2014-10-09 11:58:39
categories: 
---
At the beginning of August, a friend talked me into going to a developer Meetup. The only coding knowledge I walked in the door with was a relative certainty that C++ was a language and maybe C# also. But I could be making that last part up. I'd heard my friend talk about Jims a lot. I mean, A LOT. I felt he knew a disproportionate number of people named Jim. And lines! That was a thing, too. He wrote 12,00 lines of code every day and was always trying to "get" something. Basically, I only knew enough to know that I knew nothing. Then someone gave a talk about Scala and Lift and for some unexplainable reason, I was hooked. I kept thinking, "I want to learn how to code, just so I can learn Scala and use Lift." Looking back, the only specific thing I remember is that the words "built-in security" were mentioned. That's not particularly sexy and I know that that isn't what got me interested, but nevertheless, that's all I remember now. 
For three straight days I kept thinking about that talk and how I couldn't do anything with it, even though I wanted to, so badly. And on the third day...I created a CodeAcademy account. Four hours later, I had finished my first course and couldn't believe the newfound power at my fingertips! All the way through HTML, CSS, most of Javascript and the first two days of a Ruby on Rails course, I continued to feel the power and knew that I was an incredible badass. Then Jekyll happened. Maybe I wasn't so powerful after all, but it's cool because I TOTALLY figured it out one night around one in the morning. The same night that I realized that sleep is overrated... Then Foundation happened. I definitely wasn't a badass anymore. For the first 16 exercises of Ruby the Hard Way, I could crank one out every five minutes, and then suddenly they were taking twenty minutes each. I sucked. I was almost halfway through my Ruby course and I was falling behind and there was no way that I would be able to catch up and get everything possible from the course.
A few hours later, reality struck. I was actually less than two weeks into a 12 week course. I had just learned so much information out of four classes that I felt like it had been over a month. Nope. Nope nope nope. No reason to panic. So I calmed down and got back to work.